Job Description:

At Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI), we build the future of the cloud for Enterprises as a diverse team of fellow creators and inventors. We act with the speed and attitude of a start-up, with the scale and customer focus of the leading enterprise software company in the world.
 
The Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) team can allow you to build and operate a massive scale, integrated cloud services in a broadly distributed, multi-tenant cloud environment.  OCI is committed to providing the best in cloud products that meet the needs of our customers who are tackling some of the world’s biggest challenges. We offer unique opportunities for innovative, hands-on engineers with the expertise and passion to solve complex problems in distributed, highly available services and virtualized infrastructure. Our engineers have a significant technical and business impact at every level, designing and building innovative new systems to power our customers’ business-critical applications.  
We are reimagining what's possible with a true cloud-native database to provide unparalleled performance and durability with our new large-scale distributed services and storage backend. Our services expose highly available, high-performance storage volumes and backups to our elastic compute customers.
 
We’re looking for hands-on engineers with expertise and passion for solving complex problems in distributed database systems, storage infrastructure, transaction processing, and highly available services. If this is you, at Oracle, you can design and build innovative new systems from the ground up. These are exciting times in our space - we are growing fast, still at an early stage, and working on 
Responsibilities

As a member of the software engineering division, you will take an active role in defining and evolving standard software engineering practices, architecture and procedures. You will be responsible for defining, developing, designing, and debugging Cloud Scale Distributed Systems and Services, and you will also provide mentorship for other engineers. Work is novel and complex, involving the application of advanced technical skills in an area of specialization. You will be leading contributor individually in the area and as a team member, providing direction and mentoring to others. BS or MS degree or equivalent experience relevant to functional area. 
 
You will own software development of significant features in Oracle Cloud's Database Service offerings. You should be comfortable with development in Java/Python/Terraform and be willing to learn new languages as needed. You should value simplicity and scale, work well in a collaborative, agile environment, and be excited to learn.
 
Qualifications

Disclaimer:

Certain US customer or client-facing roles may be required to comply with applicable requirements, such as immunization and occupational health mandates.

Range and benefit information provided in this posting are specific to the stated locations only

US: Hiring Range in USD from: $96,800 to $223,400 per annum. May be eligible for bonus and equity.

Oracle maintains broad salary ranges for its roles in order to account for variations in knowledge, skills, experience, market conditions and locations, as well as reflect Oracle’s differing products, industries and lines of business.
Candidates are typically placed into the range based on the preceding factors as well as internal peer equity.

Oracle US offers a comprehensive benefits package which includes the following:
1. Medical, dental, and vision insurance, including expert medical opinion
2. Short term disability and long term disability
3. Life insurance and AD&D
4. Supplemental life insurance (Employee/Spouse/Child)
5. Health care and dependent care Flexible Spending Accounts
6. Pre-tax commuter and parking benefits
7. 401(k) Savings and Investment Plan with company match
8. Paid time off: Flexible Vacation is provided to all eligible employees assigned to a salaried (non-overtime eligible) position. Accrued Vacation is provided to all other employees eligible for vacation benefits. For employees working at least 35 hours per week, the vacation accrual rate is 13 days annually for the first three years of employment and 18 days annually for subsequent years of employment. Vacation accrual is prorated for employees working between 20 and 34 hours per week. Employees working fewer than 20 hours per week are not eligible for vacation.
9. 11 paid holidays
10. Paid sick leave: 72 hours of paid sick leave upon date of hire. Refreshes each calendar year. Unused balance will carry over each year up to a maximum cap of 112 hours.
11. Paid parental leave
12. Adoption assistance
13. Employee Stock Purchase Plan
14. Financial planning and group legal
15. Voluntary benefits including auto, homeowner and pet insurance
